Let's go ahead and get started and create a brand new Android composed project.
So open Android Studio, you can go and say file you top.
There are different ways to create a new project.
But this is how I'm going to do it.
And so and then we're going to have to get the empty compose activity, so click on that.
I'm going to say next and here we're going to create the project.
I'm going to say, give it a name.
I say intro to compose.
So we're going to start from the beginning with compose.
So dissecting the major components of a compose project and they compose application.
So whatever you want, you can name it.
And of course, for a package name, mine is pre-populated with this package name, but you can choose
whatever you want and make sure you have a location.
Where are you going to save face?
So I do have a sandbox android there in my.
When my machine makes sure we have Android calling for minimum SDK, I'm just going to go higher.
It doesn't really matter at this point, but because go to 10.
I got 38 this point.
All right.
Let's say finish, and so it may take you a little while for the project to be created, so be patient,
wait until the process is done and you can always see at the bottom here what's this great Gradle configuring
projects?
So the Gradle is the machine, quote unquote, that does all the work in the background to validate.
To put together the entire project works in the background, so give it a time and it will be done soon.
OK.
After a few moments, you will see that the whole project has been created and all seems to be good.
Let's go over what we are seeing here.
So to the left here, you will see that we have our Android project.
The great thing about our industry is that it gives us different ways to view our files.
So if you click at the top here, you can even change the view of your files.
You can go to projects.
We'll just show the project view, which means you have to drop in and look for files and so forth.
That's a that's a choice, but I liked the Android view because it just focused on the files pertaining
to the application.
OK.
So you can also toggle it to close and open, right?
The project?
Tap here and inside, we have a few things we have the manifest file, we have the Manifest folder there,
which has our Android manifest, and then we have the Java folder here.
OK.
It's kind of ironic that it says Java, even though we are going to be using Kotlin.
But to remember, Java and Kotlin are interoperable and also the basis of everything really is Java
Scotland, actually.
Also on top of Java.
So that's totally fine.
And if we open our Android, if we open Java, we'll see that we have a few packages here.
So a package, essentially, it's just a folder that contains the related classes.
So all of these or different packages.
The main package we want is the first one here, right?
And it's very interesting also to see that we have the main activity, which is exactly what's open.
And then we have this UI theme, right UI theme.
So this is all created for us.
If you double click here, you can see that this is color that Katie.
So you can see color that Katie holds all of the main colors that are used in our project.
And you can see if I go to my theme.
File Double-Click.
Let's just see code.
You will see that somehow.
You can see that this is actually where the colors are being used.
You see here we have a foul called Dark Color Palette and we have dark colors and we passing.
In this case, the primary colors, primary variant and so forth.
And we also have the light color palettes.
Now these dark and light color are used for different modes, for different light modes.
We have dark mode and we have light mode.
So nowadays devices can be on dark mode or light mode.
So right off the bat, our project gives that flexibility of dark and light mode and the colors that
will be shown in one of those modes.
And then we have this type.
What is this table type?
Here we have a few things.
This is where we can set our typography.
So we're talking about styles, fonts and sizes and so forth.
There's a lot of things here, but but we have the basic set up that you see here, says typography.
The body is set to this style, OK, which means if we want to use, for instance, we are in our main
activity, we want to create a text and we want to pass the stay style.
We can use these typography here like the variable and invoke the body to get the body style for the
text we want to show.
These are preset values, and obviously we can change those.
As you see here, either default textiles to override, we can override all sorts of things.
So this is something that we're going to take a look later, obviously.
All right.
So and we have shape.
So for shapes here, we can actually use certain predetermined shapes for our user interfaces, for
our widgets as we create them in our main activity or anywhere else in our application so we can create
our own, obviously.
But there are a few that are set as a default for us to use.
As we see here, I have vowel shapes and we are getting the shapes, as you can see here.
If we get a small, we're going to get a rounded corners shape for DPI, which means if we use, for
instance, a card and we want to have those rounded corners, we can right away say we want small.
This is the value we're going to get for our rounded corner shape.
For a medium.
This is what we get in large.
That's what we get.
So all of this is given to us, and we can't always override and customize.
And of course, we have our resources folder here and then we have our arrival here in our resource
files.
OK, resource file.
And then inside we have this from a folder.
This is where we can add images and so forth.
And we also have the values folder here where we have colors that XML.
These are also the same representation of the colors that we saw earlier, that it's used still in Android
development.
OK.
These are still used, of course, internally, because remember, even though we're talking about composing,
we're not saying that everything is stripped away in terms of how we used to build Android applications.
This is just a quick overview of what we have here.
And I do realize if you were an Android developer already, this may be very mundane to you and you
can always fast forward or skip this, but it's fine.
But I just thought it would be good for everybody to actually get at least some idea of what's going
on here.
All right.
So we will be spending a lot of our time in this folder here.
So in our main activity because we are creating a compose project here.
This is what we see them go ahead and close this down.
Now we can split between code dress code and split to see here the preview a few refresh.
We should see a preview in a second.
OK.
After a few seconds, you can see now it says here, Hello, Android.
Now it's important to know exactly where is this being previewed from?
Let's look at our code.
You may think this has been previewed from here because this is where it's being called, but that's
not true.
If we go down here, we can see that we have this default preview.
In fact, we should have a hint here that says default preview.
So this is indeed the name of this function here.
OK, that's very interesting to also keep in mind that every composable, every composable function
has to have this at composable annotation, so annotation is a way of adding meaning to certain functions
or classes and so forth to add metadata to say so that the compiler can know exactly what to do.
There will be more directions as to what is it that it's going to be added on to the functional class
that is being annotated that stadium.
Although in compose, the ad compose is not necessarily annotation as you would have in any other circumstances,
such as in Java and even codling in a sense.
So look at this as more of a keyword that tells the compiler that, OK, this is indeed a composable
function, which means which means it should construct a piece of a user interface.
But again, what is really making this available here in our preview is this at preview.
Annotation there and see also, if you have it over anywhere, we get some documentation, this is really,
really, really, really, really, really important and cool.
So if whenever in doubt you do understand is, for example, what this is or what something is.
You can always hover over and you have a preview can see here.
Says This is a public constructor preview.
Very good.
That means we can pass all these all of these parameters, and you can see one of the parameters we
pass is show background boolean to true.
What happens if I say false, I let's test things out.
Aha.
They would go.
If I say false, then we lose that white background.
All right back to true.
And if you preview again or actually have or should say.
The preview you can play around with anything else that you want here, like a name, can change the
preview name to something else.
I can see, for instance, name sequel to me.
Like this?
And voila, the moment you do that, you can see it change to me instead of default preview.
So if you don't put anything, specify it's just going to go and get the name of the function.
That's it would be like and didn't have to do it.
You can see its default preview.
OK, so in Mexican, see here we have the intro to compose theme.
This intro to compose theme, you notice it will take the name of the application that you created that
you typed in when we're creating this project.
Right?
So what is this?
Well, it's a painted theme, so you could imagine that this is theme related.
If you hover over again, you can see that this is at composable, which means is indeed a composable
itself.
So it's public fun and intro to compose theme.
And then here you can see that we can pass a few parameters.
OK?
And these parameters are optional at least the first one.
So the first parameter is dark theme, so it respects it expects a Boolean.
So, as the name implies, dark theme will allow us to say, OK, we want this to show in dark theme
mode or not.
And then we have this content here.
The content is a composable function that is expected here.
Interesting.
And the beauty here, because you'll remember if you have been following yes or if you remember your
codling, you remember if you have a function that has a function and other function as its last parameter,
which is this case, then that means that we can use a lambda.
As you see here, we can use a trailing lambda to invoke this content last parameter function.
And, of course, is expecting at composable, which means expect any composable function to be shown
or to be to be added.
So in this case, you that's why you can see you have a greeting, which indeed is a composable function.
If I remove this composable there, we can have a lot of issues because I'm going to say, well.
Function, which invokes a composable function, must be marked with at composable annotation.
So this is lesson number one, the say that you can only call either composable inside of composable
functions.
Very good.
So we are making progress here.
We're going really slow because I really want you to get to know what we're dealing with, you know,
very simple project.
This is just a default project.
A default jetpack compose function.
So we're going to go through a few things here and keep digesting so we can wrap your head around,
compose.